feat: add `stats/strided/distances/dcosine-similarity` (#9281)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/stats/strided/distances/dcosine-similarity/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2025 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

> # dcosine-similarity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# dcosineSimilarity
```

> > Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Compute the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays.
```

<section class="intro">

> 

Reviewer: We should probably define the cosine similarity and include an equation.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var dcosineSimilarity = require( '@stdlib/stats/strided/distances/dcosine-similarity' );
```

#### dcosineSimilarity( N, x, strideX, y, strideY )

> Calculates the cosine similarity of vectors `x` and `y`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays.
```

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 4.0, 2.0, -3.0, 5.0, -1.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 2.0, 6.0, -1.0, -4.0, 8.0 ] );

var z = dcosineSimilarity( x.length, x, 1, y, 1 );
// returns ~-0.061
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **x**: input [`Float64Array`][@stdlib/array/float64].
-   **strideX**: stride length of `x`.
-   **y**: input [`Float64Array`][@stdlib/array/float64].
-   **strideY**: stride length of `y`.

> The `N` and strides parameters determine which elements in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to calculate the cosine similarity of every other value in `x` and the first `N` elements of `y` in reverse order,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `N` and stride parameters determine which elements in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to calculate the cosine similarity of every other value in `x` and the first `N` elements of `y` in reverse order,
```

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0 ] );

var z = dcosineSimilarity( 3, x, 2, y, -1 );
// returns ~0.878
```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

// Initial arrays...
var x0 = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y0 = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

// Create offset views...
var x1 = new Float64Array( x0.buffer, x0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*1 ); // start at 2nd element
var y1 = new Float64Array( y0.buffer, y0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*3 ); // start at 4th element

var z = dcosineSimilarity( 3, x1, 1, y1, 1 );
// returns ~0.982
```

#### dcosineSimilarity.ndarray( N, x, strideX, offsetX, y, strideY, offsetY )

> Calculates the cosine similarity of `x` and `y` using alternative indexing semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays using alternative indexing semantics.
```

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If `N <= 0`, both functions return `0.0`.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );
var dcosineSimilarity = require( '@stdlib/stats/strided/distances/dcosine-similarity' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};
var x = discreteUniform( 10, 0, 100, opts );
console.log( x );

var y = discreteUniform( x.length, 0, 10, opts );
console.log( y );

var out = dcosineSimilarity.ndarray( x.length, x, 1, 0, y, -1, y.length-1 );
console.log( out );
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

<!-- C interface documentation. -->

* * *

<section class="c">

## C APIs

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- C usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

### Usage

```c
#include "stdlib/stats/strided/distances/dcosine_similarity.h"
```

#### stdlib_strided_dcosine_similarity( N, \*X, strideX, \*Y, strideY )

> Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays.
```

```c
const double x[] = { 4.0, 2.0, -3.0, 5.0, -1.0 };
const double y[] = { 2.0, 6.0, -1.0, -4.0, 8.0 };

double v = stdlib_strided_dcosine_similarity( 5, x, 1, y, 1 );
// returns ~-0.061
```

The function accepts the following arguments:

-   **N**: `[in] CBLAS_INT` number of indexed elements.
-   **X**: `[in] double*` first input array.
-   **strideX**: `[in] CBLAS_INT` stride length of `X`.
-   **Y**: `[in] double*` second input array.
-   **strideY**: `[in] CBLAS_INT` stride length of `Y`.

```c
double stdlib_strided_dcosine_similarity( const CBLAS_INT N, const double *X, const CBLAS_INT strideX, const double *Y, const CBLAS_INT strideY );
```

<!--lint ignore maximum-heading-length-->

#### stdlib_strided_dcosine_similarity_ndarray( N, \*X, strideX, offsetX, \*Y, strideY, offsetY )

> <!--lint ignore maximum-heading-length-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!--lint disable maximum-heading-length-->

#### stdlib_strided_dcosine_similarity_ndarray( N, \*X, strideX, offsetX, \*Y, strideY, offsetY )

<!--lint enable maximum-heading-length-->
```

> Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point vectors using alternative indexing semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computes the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays using alternative indexing semantics.
```

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2025 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# dcosineSimilarity

> Compute the cosine similarity of two double-precision floating-point strided arrays.

<section class="intro">

The [cosine similarity][wikipedia-cosine-similarity] is defined as

<!-- <equation class="equation" label="eq:cosine_similarity" align="center"

> raw="sim=\frac{A\cdot B}{\|A\|\|B\|} alt="Equation for cosine similarity."> -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- <equation class="equation" label="eq:cosine_similarity" align="center" raw="sim=\frac{A\cdot B}{\|A\|\|B\|} alt="Equation for cosine similarity."> -->
```

```math
sim = \frac{A \cdot B}{\|A\| \, \|B\|}
```

> <!-- <div class="equation" align="center" data-raw-text="sim=\frac{A\cdot B}{\|A\|\|B\|} data-equation="eq:cosine_similarity"> <img src="" alt="Cosine similarity equation."> <br> 

Reviewer: This equation markup is not correct, but it looks like I will need to update.

Author: Could you please point me to the correct markup? I did not really get you. :)
